2. Automate
If there are repetitive tasks or processes you can’t eliminate, ask yourself if you can automate them instead. Even if you have to pay for apps, the time (and sanity) savings might make it worth it.

One low-hanging fruit in this area is your calendar! Simply use a calendar scheduling software for the next meeting with your generals (I mean, collaborators…) about the imminent expansion of your empire.

If Social Media posting survived the last round of gladiator games, you could also use a tool to automate and schedule your posts. This will also save you plenty of time.

→ Which business tasks could you automate?



3. Delegate
Assuming you can’t eliminate or automate a task, the next step is to consider if you can delegate it.

Just remember to drop the bloodthirsty Roman emperor act before you talk to anyone. (Have you seen just how many Roman emperors got murdered by their own troops or relatives? Let’s not take any risks here!)

An example of a great task to delegate is anything design-related. Especially with important things (such as that new temple to celebrate your ascension to Godhood), it’s best to leave the details to the experts.

Definitely don’t ever create your own book cover unless you are a designer yourself or or are trying to encourage people to abandon perfectionism (no, even then you probably shouldn’t…).

Delegating tasks doesn’t necessarily mean hiring someone. If you don’t have an assistant, perhaps you can ask a family member to help you out from time to time, potentially in exchange for other things (their own temple?).

→ Which business tasks could you delegate?



4. Procrastinate
If a business task has survived the Hunger Games so far, it is worthy of your attention. But not necessarily right now.

Contrary to popular belief, procrastination isn’t always bad.

Research tells us that there are two forms of procrastination: Passive Pupienus and his much more handsome brother, Active Antonius Pius (although serious researchers call them passive and active procrastination… their loss).

Passive Pupienus (yes, I’m still hung up on Roman emperors… ) tells himself he should write his book proposal but ends up lounging on the couch instead.

Active Antonius Pius is a whole different beast. He deliberately puts off a task for a certain amount of time which leaves him free to lounge on the couch (or administer an empire or become one of the Five Good Emperors) until then.

As an active procrastinator, he uses the pressure of a deadline to be more effective. Because his delay is a conscious choice and because he trusts that he can get everything done in time, he doesn’t feel bad about his procrastination.

(Note: I have no idea about the preferred productivity approaches of Roman emperors. I’ve pretty much just chosen these two for their names.)

A business task that I have deliberately procrastinated on is releasing my ebook in book form. Why, you may ask? Why, you may ask? Well, because it’s quite a bit of work and just not important enough to focus on that right now. 

→ Which business tasks could you (actively, please!) procrastinate on?



Takeaway
I started this article with two concise sentences by Tim Ferris about how to be efficient in business.

Here are four sentences that summarize the step-by-step approach I suggested in this article (without the references to the Roman or any other empire because screw this, let’s join the Jedi!):

Create a list of your business tasks and eliminate every task that doesn’t need to be done.
Try to automate the remaining tasks.
If that’s not possible, try to delegate each remaining task to someone else.
If that’s not possible, use active procrastination to do the task in the optimal time frame.
There you have it, a framework to rule them all. Or (remember, we switched sides!) to get things done in your Jedi business—faster and easier than before.

May the four steps be with you!